Use Case: Signing up for Experiment

Actors: Prospective articipant (user), system, database

Pre-conditions:
	Database and system are stable and running.
	User has navigated to system webpage.


Step 1:
UI description: Main page: Login/logout button. List of offered experiments; has buttons to sort by various criteria, each experiment can be clicked to go to its page.  Top of the page has HCI lab logo.

(Possible substep) User clicks on sort/filter buttons for list.  This alters the displayed experiments, but does not navigate away from the main page or alter flow.

User clicks on an experiment.

Alternate flow: User clicks on login/logout button.  Run use case "Login/Logout", then return to the main page (step 1).  Persistancy of selected filter options not guaranteed upon return from login.



Step 2:
UI description: Experiment page: Login/logout button (same place as in main page).  Experiment description and qualifications listed (non-interactable).  List of timeslots, buttons to sort/filter; each timeslot can be clicked.  There is a button to join the experiment without selecting a timeslot at this step.

(Possible substep) User clicks sort/filter buttons for list.  This alters displayed timeslots, but does not navigate away from experiment page or alter flow.

User clicks a timeslot button or the "join experiment" button.

Alternate flow: User clicks on login/logout button.  Run use case "Login/logout", then return to this experiment's page.  While this will return to the same experiment, persistancy of sort/filter options is not guaranteed upon return from login.



Step 3:
Run use case "login/logout/create account".

Alternate flow: If user is already logged in, skip this step.



Step 4:
UI description: Experiment description and prerequisites listed at top.  Checkbox below prerequisites to acknowledge and confirm they are met.  Selected timeslot (or "Please select a timeslot" if the user did not specify one in step 2) and user name displayed above large "confirm appointment" button; the timeslot can be clicked for a drop-down menu of other available timeslots.

(Possible substep) User chooses a different timeslot, or selects one if they did not in step 2.

User checks the checkbox.

User clicks the "confirm appointment" button.

Alternate flow: User attempts to confirm appointment without checking the box, or with no timeslot selected.  Popup window will inform user they cannot proceed without checking the box and choosing a timeslot.

Note: This page is not accessible when not logged in.  Logging out from here will return the user to step 2, rather than back here.



Step 5:
Database interaction: System sends user data and timeslot to database.  Database updates user to link them to the timeslot and vice versa.

System returns user to main page.  Main page displays message at top confirming successful scheduling.

System sends out confirmation email with name used, account info, timeslot, etc.

Alternate flow: Database reports timeslot not available (should be rare, only happens when someone else picks it while you're finishing the form).  System will display popup to user informing them of this, and return to step 4.




Post-conditions:
	Experiment and participant data updated to reflect appointment.
	(side-effect: user is currently logged in.)










